## Debugging Bash Scripts

The first step towards developing an excellent bash script involves making peace with the fact that at times, things will go wrong. Your script might fail, or worse, it might work in an unintended way. However, the ability to identify these issues through debugging techniques is what separates an ordinary scripter from a true command-line engineer. So, let's dive in and unravel the mysteries of debugging Bash Scripts.

### Start Debugging Early

The phrase "debugging is twice as hard as writing a script" is especially true if you're waiting until completion to debug. The best way to avoid minor mistakes snowballing into major issues is to start debugging early—and often.

**Tip** 💡
Use the '-v' (verbose) bash option to get information about your script as it's running. It prints shell input lines as they're read.

```bash
bash -v yourscript.sh
```

This will display every line in your script as it gets executed, which is useful to track the progression of your script.

### Using heatmaps as breakpoints

In debugging, inserting ‘breakpoints’ and inspecting variables at those points can be very helpful. We don't have a built-in breakpoint function in Bash, but we can mimic one using the `read` command.

```bash
#!/bin/bash
echo "This will execute before breakpoint"
read -p "Press [Enter] to resume..."
echo "This will execute after breakpoint"
```

By pressing Enter, you can supervise the sequence of your script execution.

### Use the ‘set’ command 

Using the `-x` (xtrace) option with `set` can be useful while debugging. It prints a trace of simple commands, for-loops, case statements, etc., as they get executed. 

```bash
#!/bin/bash
set -x
echo "This will get traced"
``` 

Turn it off with `set +x`. Treat debugging as a responsibility, not just a task. Understanding where your script is going wrong will bring you a step closer to why it's going wrong.

### Debugging Traps 

Traps are handy for catching unexpected script exits. We can declare a function that gets called when the script exits, providing us with valuable debugging information.

```bash
#!/bin/bash
function finish {
  echo "The script has ended at `date`" 
}
trap finish EXIT
echo "The script is running..."
```

In this script, if an error causes an unplanned exit, the `finish` function will execute, allowing you to see what went wrong.

Debugging can feel like detective work—and sometimes it is! But, fear not, future maestro. Each step you take in learning how to debug effectively sharpens your script writing skills by illuminating your weak spots, giving you the tools you need to create better, more reliable scripts. Your journey to mastering command lines is off to a fantastic start. Keep exploring, keep questioning, and always keep scripting! 🎯🔍🔧