# 09.03_Error_Handling

Error handling is an important aspect of scripting or programming in general. It is simply unavoidable to have scripts run smoothly all the time. This is where error handling comes into play. 

Error handling is crucial for scripting because it helps you anticipate, control, and resolve any possible issues that could arise during the execution of your scripts.

## Catching Errors

When bash scripts are run, they return a status code, also known as exit status. If the code returns with 0, it means that the script ran successfully without any problems. Any other number means there’s been an error.

Check the exit status of the command like this:

```bash
echo "Hello, Virtuoso"
echo $?
```

In the command line, "$?" represents the exit status of the last command executed.

## Understanding Error Messages

Bash provides error messages that help in understanding the cause of the command's failure. Parsing these errors is a crucial skill that will help you rapidly detect and rectify issues in your code.

## The Power of ‘set -e’

One simple way to handle errors in bash scripting is by using `set -e`. This command tells the bash shell to exit the script if any command exits with a non-zero status, which we know is the hallmark of a failed command.

```bash
set -e
cd /Some/non/existing/directory
echo "This won't print"
```

Here, the script will stop at the `cd` command since the directory does not exist.

## Custom Error Messages

While the default error messages provide a degree of clarity, creating custom error messages can enhance the debugging process. This can be done using `trap`.

```bash
trap 'echo Custom error: Error occurred in the script at line $LINENO' ERR
```

## Graceful Fallbacks with if-then-else

Sometimes, you might want your script not to exit upon encountering an error, but to continue running a different command instead. If-then-else statements can be useful here:

```bash
if cd /Some/non/existing/directory; then
  echo "Directory exists"
else
  echo "Directory does not exist"
fi
```

These techniques will give your scripts the resilience they need to tackle any error thrown their way. Remember, the strength of a good script is not just in its success but also how wisely it handles its failures. 😎👍🏽