## 09.02_Bash_Scripting_Conventions

Bash scripting conventions aren't just rules to be followed; they are your keys to a kingdom of clean, clear, and efficient scripts. With these conventions at your disposal, you can transform your scripts into art forms. 

### 🕴️‍♀️ Style Guide 

Adherence to a style guide is integral in the long term maintenance of your scripts. It increases readability and reduces ambiguity. A good style guide advocates clear naming, consistent indentation, and succinct comments. Never underestimate the power of a well-placed comment - they're your scripts' subtitles, delivering clarity and context where code alone can't. 

```bash
# Correct indentation and meaningful comments
for file in *; do 
  # Loop through each file
  if [[ -d $file ]]; then 
    # If the file is a directory
    echo "$file is a directory."
  fi
done
```

### 👥 Variable Naming 

In Bash, it's essential to name your variables with clarity and precision. Upper-case letters are traditionally used for environment and shell variables, while user-defined variables should be in lower-case.

```bash
# User-defined variables in lower-case
username="john"
echo "Hello, $username"

# Environment variable in upper-case
echo "Your home directory is: $HOME"
```

### 🕸️ String Quoting 

Correctly quoting can prevent a plethora of potential vulnerabilities in your scripts. When in doubt, remember this: double quotes (" ") for variable substitution, single quotes (' ') for strong quoting, and backticks (` `) for command substitution. 

```bash
# Double quotes for variable substitution
greeting="Hello, world"
echo "$greeting"

# Single quotes for strong quoting
echo 'This won''t be expanded: $greeting'

# Backticks for command substitution
echo `date`
```

### 🏝️ Spaces Matters

Spaces matter more than you think. They can be the difference between a script running seamlessly or spiraling into an infinite loop. Be aware of where spaces should and shouldn't be used.

```bash
# Incorrect
if[$var -eq 10]; then echo "Equal to 10"; fi

# Correct
if [ $var -eq 10 ]; then echo "Equal to 10"; fi
```

There you have it – a glimpse into the world of Bash scripting conventions. Always remember, good code is read more than it's written. Strive for clarity and simplicity, and your scripts will thank you!
