## 08.01_First_Script: Crafting Your Very First Spell

Welcome aboard on this grand journey of crafting your inaugural Bash script! Remember, a master was once a novice, and every worthy journey begins with a single step. 

### 💡 What is a Bash Script?

A Bash script is a plain text file which contains a series of commands. It can be invoked just like a 'program' in order to automate tasks via the command line.

### 🛠 Crafting Your First Script

Let's craft our very first Bash script. Start by creating a file named `hello.sh` containing the following code:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
echo "Hello, World!"
```

The first line of the script is called a shebang `#!/bin/bash`. It tells the system that this script is a Bash script and it should be executed using Bash shell.

The second line is using the `echo` command to output the text "Hello, World!" to the console.

### ☑ Run Your Script

To run your script, start by giving it executable permissions using the `chmod` command:

```bash
chmod +x hello.sh
```

Then, execute the script:

```bash
./hello.sh
```

If all went correctly, you should see `Hello, World!` echoed back to you from the terminal.

### 🎈 Understanding Permissions

The `chmod` command changes the file to an executable. `-x` tells the command to give execute (run) rights.

```bash
chmod [options] mode file
```

A successful Bash script journey starts with understanding permissions. By using `chmod +x filename`, you've bravely taken your first leap into the magical world of Bash scripting.

### 🔎 Exploring More Commands

Bash scripting is not restricted to just one command. It possesses the ability to handle multiple commands too! 
Let's quickly modify our `hello.sh` to include another command:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
echo "Hello, World!"
echo "It's a beautiful day for scripting!"
```

Running your modified script will now display two sentences in the terminal.

Remember, with scripting, the limit is only the sky! 🚀 Be invigorated, for you are now stepping into a much wider realm of possibilities. Let the scripting journey continue! 📖
